# US-East cheaters: Now in a handy database!

In the absence of a truly robust and accurate† cheater list for US-East, we've decided to put together a list of cheaters on Sterling, VA servers. Although most of them are stupid enough to get a server ban, we've found plenty with otherwise clean slates. It's well past time to change that. Our goal is to take note of every cheater against whom we play; it became apparent long ago that the real strength of databases such as this is the ability to track human cheaters, not bots. The latter are extremely obvious.

When the project was started, our standard was to provide incontrovertible evidence for each mark. Considering practical experience since beginning, it's not really possible to do this for _every_ cheater; it's impossible to catch closet cheaters on sniper, for example, without their POV (in something higher fidelity than trying to glean it from a demo originally recorded from yours), but it's precisely because these are the most difficult to prove that people need to know we found that they were cheating. Accordingly, every marking is accompanied by 100% confidence on our part that the player is cheating; we do not mark people as "Suspicious", as either we found evidence that they were cheating or didn't. If the "proof" entry does not contain outright evidence beyond a reasonable doubt (like automated anticheat server bans or a video with their SteamID), it will explain how we came to that conclusion--otherwise, what's stopping anyone from marking someone saying they were "aimbotting"? We hope that the proof entries on the list will help users learn cheater tendencies or even simply come to their own conclusions given handy additional evidence, as no marking short of direct video evidence should be considered gospel. 

† The Uncletopia and "TF2BD Trusted" lists, which are both run by the same person and group, are robust, but not completely accurate; I found many false positives with minimal searching. They range from understandably jumping the gun to [pants-on-head insane](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SZUbLdi7pfk). But they're generally good, that is, if you think someone's cheating, check his history, and he's marked on one of those lists, he probably is. It's useful enough regardless that part of the exigency for this list is that Roto no longer provides his lists to SteamHistory, which means that a large portion of their markings no longer show up on the site.

# Why mark people with SourceBans, anyway?

You would think it's all but redundant to add cheaters who are already banned somewhere, but as it turns out, there are a bunch of people with such bans in our games--even from automated anticheats--who clearly aren't cheating. They're usually not even going positive. (As of the day I'm writing this, we saw two just yesterday.) I couldn't tell you why it is, but not everyone who has one or even multiple of these is actively cheating. As for those who still are, the list lets you know that they're still in Casual and they're still cheating. Even with bans, I don't automatically assume someone is cheating until they've given us reason.

# Purchased accounts
**Edit 2025-03-19: Cracked/stolen accounts are being banned rapidly and with some regularity.**
Example: https://steamhistory.net/id/76561197994622991. This account was banned almost immediately after a singular report from me. In the past couple months, it's not unheard of for these to get hit within 10-30 minutes of a report.

Steam has been banning purchased accounts (independent of whether they're cheating or not) on and off since 2017, when bans were much easier to cause through reports. Presently, bans ARE possible to achieve by reporting an account from its Steam profile (not from TF2's report function). Though the likelihood of a ban isn't that high, getting your friends to do it increases it a bit, and it's particularly higher for certain types of accounts (like ones created c. 2005-09 and those that have Cheater's Lament/Primeval Warrior/etc., viz. https://steamhistory.net/id/76561197973495415). If you come across an account that is many years old but experienced a long period of dormancy, especially if it "woke up" and immediately adopted edgy, anime, or similar aesthetics, you're dealing with a purchased account and more than likely a cheater, too. Make sure to report these accounts if you can spare the 30 seconds.

Examples of purchased accounts include:
* https://steamhistory.net/id/76561197995896476: Cheater's Lament and Primeval Warrior badge; earliest friend was added [338 days ago](https://i.imgur.com/o9MhHiZ.png) (!!!); no achievements, at least in TF2, before 2024, despite creation in 2008 (!!!); no comments before 2024, either; no activity whatsoever on the account from creation until suddenly "waking up" in 2024
* https://steamhistory.net/id/76561197962552885: evidence copy-pasted from his marking as a cheater (though he wasn't cheating *just* because he's on a purchased account:) all signs indicate it 'woke up' in 2019; his Mercenary badge is from that year, and his account has no history whatsoever--on ANY site, even ONCE--prior to then. You can also see that he has no achievements, in any game, earned prior to 2019, but the Steam achievement system dates back to long before that. Also, his TF2 review indicates he had 2,800 hours by November 2019, and 1,200 since, so it'd be more likely to see *more* activity on the account before 2019 (of which there is *zero*) on, e.g., SteamRep, than after, which is the case.

The basic pattern is the same for all purchased accounts. Remember that there are accounts purchased in 2017 that are still kicking and evaded every ban wave, and though they're not likely to get banned, it's important to be able to spot them so that you can know when there's a bad actor in your game. Example bought in 2019: https://steamhistory.net/id/76561197985558577 (created 2006, [woke up 2019](https://i.imgur.com/FODroLh.png))
